This is Linux Unplugged Episode 35 for April 8th, 2014.
Welcome to Linux Unplugged, your weekly Linux talk show that's sore in all of the
wrong places but still pouring out one for good old XP. My name is Chris. My
name is Matt. Hey Matt, so here we are is XP Doomsday and to celebrate this very
special event I've asked Chase to join us. Hey Chase! Hey guys, how are you? Hey pretty
good. So guess what? I had my first wing experience with Chase today. Tell me
where we went. I took, well actually Chris really took me, but I said hey Chris we
need to go to Buffalo Wild Wings in beautiful beautiful North Marysville. And
we got three types of wings. We got the Parmesan garlic, we got the
buffalo, buffalo dry rub, and the honey mustard. This buffalo dry rub was like
wings I'd never had before. Weren't they? That's the best kind of dry rub. The crispy skin and the flavor just hit you.
I love me some wings. It's wing Tuesday right? Yeah it was wing Tuesday so we had a great special. So we just got all loaded up on wings and we thought we'd come in here and, you know, I wanted to have a conversation with Chase because I think one of the biggest pools of switchers to Linux, and we're kind of using the death of XP as an excuse today to talk about this, but I think one of the, realistically if we're being honest, people who are going to switch to Linux today, you know, in the year 2014 and 2015 are likely going to often be the more technical users.
People who are fascinated by technology and kind of want to take that to the next level. See what other technology enthusiasts could create a la open source, right? And maybe even become a little more involved in the human side of software development by becoming exposed to open source. And I think that's going to be a huge pool of switchers. And that's not a small group. There's a lot of Windows users out there who are very technically savvy. They are geeks. They are gamers. And guess what? Chase happens to run a podcast network called Geek Gamer. He fits that category.
He's an IT guy himself, but he is a Windows user primarily. And we're going to pick his brain today and get the honest, real world answers maybe why he hasn't been particularly motivated to switch to Linux. Because I think getting a little honest opinion on maybe the barriers that are perceived and the actual barriers that exist could help us break those down in the future and move more people over now that today is the end of XP.
And I felt like it would only be appropriate if we celebrated. So what I'm going to do here is I'm just going to boot up my XP machine. Let me log in real quick because this is a special moment. And I don't normally run XP in the studio.
But all right, I got the XP machine started. Now, Chase, you can see here I just downloaded a few. Oh, oh, let me clear that. Oh, Chris, you need to install. No, I have this. Oh, what am I? Oh, no. I feel good. I feel good now. I think this is what was supposed to happen, right? That's right. This is clearly.
So goodbye to XP. We hated you. You were the bane of my existence. So many of my ass hairs were burned on solving your problem when we went from 98 to the Fisher Price interface. Oh, let's not say that. So, you know, I was it wasn't terrible.
It wasn't bad when when it first came out. I was the guy at a bank deploying a bunch of x86 servers and the mainframe guys were sitting back laughing at me like, look at your toy computers with their toy Fisher XP operating system. It was a point of mockery that I had to endure for years.
Yeah, but all you had to do is enable classic mode and then you're right. Come on. I told them that I told them that. But kill the theme and also make sure that you change your start button to stop. That's a very important registry hack. I mean, you know, I'm a big PC gamer. And like, for example, when Vista first came out and everybody was like, you know, I'm going to move to Vista for gaming.
I got better performance on XP. I stayed with XP for a long period of time until Windows 7. Well, a lot of businesses stay with XP because the hardware requirements are lower. In fact, a lot of businesses still are. Actually, there's a lot of banks that are paying for XP support for their ATMs. Governments. Yeah, because they're paying for that exclusive premium support.
I know. This is so brilliant because Microsoft has basically made up this phony expiration date for bits that they can then put a phony bounty on that is a completely made up price that they can just charge people randomly for now. It's a brilliant scheme.
But should they support it indefinitely, though?
Why not?
I mean, no, I don't actually believe that. But as a thought experiment, let's say you had 50,000 employees and you were one of the largest software companies in the world and there were a billion users of your operating system. Let's entertain the idea of continuing to support it. I mean, why not?
It keeps the world safer.
It only keeps them safer as long as those people are updating like they should and they don't disregard updates. So you can find OS2 still deployed in system 390 mainframes, OS2 on a 386 still getting updates from IBM.
Wow.
So it's possible.
That puts it in perspective, yeah.
It's possible. I don't know if you'd want to do it, but I say good riddance.
Honestly, I am so glad it's out of here. XP as a support contractor has been the source of so many wasted hours. I lost so many clients' computers to Service Pack 3. It bricked machines. It was a security nightmare. The security was boned from the very beginning.
And, you know, I think in a large way, it was just enough of an operating system to keep people on Windows for a long time. But it introduced so many problems. And it got such a wide footprint now.
I would even go so far as to say, literally, it was the Windows XP era that retired me from PC repair. I literally was so done with it. I had a blood pressure issue because of it. It was so bad.
I feel the same way. I feel exactly the same way. It really burned me out on PC repair. And then in later years, after 7 had been out for a while, I was so frustrated that all these people weren't switching to it that I was still supporting XP.
It is one of the major reasons I said, screw it. I'm done.
For me, it has not been a good 13-year run. Now, I understand that for a lot of people, it has. But for me, it was a nightmare the entire time from the day that operating system shipped.
But see, for me, I can't put 100% blame on the operating system. You know, part of me is, you've got to also place blame on the, I'm sorry to say, dumbass user who just says, alright, well, I'm just going to go to this not really good website.
And I'm going to keep using IE when I could put Firefox on this machine.
Or Chrome or whatever. Or Netscape or whatever.
Picture.exe, that's my favorite.
Let me open up this attachment willy-nilly. There's not enough user responsibility when it comes to these things.
Even when an operating system is secure, say like OS X or you're typing in a password or authentication to install a program, people will still blindly say, alright, yeah, yeah, go, go, go, go.
I feel like it actually doesn't happen quite as much on operating systems that require a password. Like you're on today, you're on the Ubuntu 14.04 for the first time.
This is a brand new release. I got it loaded on my Bonobo. I'm getting ready for our big review on the Linux Action Show.
What is your first impression just looking at the UI? Is it clean to you? Does it seem modern? What are your first thoughts when you look at it?
Well, there's pullaways from both Windows and Mac that I feel when I use it okay.
But part of the issues that I have is some of the familiarities like, for example, the menu bar, a menu bar.
Right now I'm using XChat. I was also using Skype earlier. How long did it take for us to find stupid settings?
There's a particular bug because there's not a little app indicator up in the tray, which will probably be fixed soon since this is a beta.
But those are the kind of small intangibles where, you know, if I was making a transition from one thing to another.
Well, let me actually back this up a little bit. You know, making a transition, say, from a Windows world or from a Mac world to a Linux world.
One of my biggest roadblocks that I have is you have thousands. I don't know if thousands, but you have multiple flavors of Linux.
Yeah, you have multiple ways of installing it. Has that been a barrier?
Or have you always heard the name Ubuntu?
Of course I've heard of Ubuntu. I've actually messed around with a live distro probably a few years ago on an older laptop.
But it's one of those things where, what do you go with?
I mean, one site that I used to go to quite often was DistroWatch. I don't know if that still exists.
And I would just go and look at the list and I'd go, all right, well, I'll just take whatever's at the top and just mess around with it.
And so you don't know what to go with. I mean, at least in the Windows world, you know what to go with.
If you're in the OS X world, you know what you're going with.
I'm surprised it hasn't just sort of settled on Ubuntu for a lot of Windows switchers.
It seems like that's sort of the narrative that's out there, but maybe it's because we're so close.
See, this is one of the reasons I wanted to have you on today because I've been following it so long now,
and I've been switched over for so long that I've kind of lost perspective on what it would be like to come to it with fresh eyes.
So to me, it seems like the obvious choice from the far outside is just Ubuntu because that's the one you hear the most about.
So that'd probably be the one you want to use. So we're going to pick your brain about that.
But why don't we first do a little follow-up, a little feedback, as we like to do here on the show from last week.
That way we keep the continuity thread. We're not a syndicated Star Trek series here on the show.
Well, it should be.
We have story arcs.
It should be, absolutely.
Yeah, maybe, actually.
I'll be Worf. I'm putting that out there. I will do Worf.
All right. Okay, Chase, who do you want to be?
Oh, I've got to be Data.
Well, then all right. So I either have to be – I guess I'm Riker because I have a beard.
Yeah, do Riker. Riker, right.
Can you do the Captain Morgan, please?
You know what I could do is – you know what I have a little bit right here? Check this out.
Oh, wait. I muted it.
Because he pipes up too much.
Computer, what happened?
There we go. I got a little –
Is that from like season one or two when he was just more of the stupidish Picard where –
Ah, maybe.
That's what it sounds like. It sounds like from the early, early seasons where he didn't know what to do.
Yeah, I just was talking to a guy who's rewatching –
Hey, let's see what's out there.
I was just talking to a guy who's rewatching TNG and he's like, so is this show really preachy?
I'm like, yeah, for the first couple seasons.
Yeah.
He's like, oh, okay. So it gets better? I'm like, yes.
Yeah, the Roddenberry.
It's very Roddenberry.
Yeah, Roddenberry.
Don't hate on Roddenberry.
No, no.
I'm just saying – I'm just saying I'm a Deep Space Nine guy for a reason.
All right.
No, me too, by the way. I love DS9.
Oh, geez.
DS9 is my favorite. I love DS9.
Great minds. Just putting it out there.
Yeah, hey.
DS9 would not exist if it were not for TNG and the universe that they created.
Fair.
No, and by the way, side trivia, you know, the one guy outside the computer, Majel Roddenberry,
Miles O'Brien on the most Star Trek episodes out of any of them.
He's a Miles.
Out of any of them.
I would have liked to have seen him show up in Voyager once or twice.
Agreed.
Didn't he?
All right. So last week we talked a little bit about Mr. One Leo Laporte.
Remember, he had a little –
A tech guy.
He had a little – he had a few things to say about Linux.
There's all the software you'd want.
And he had good things to say, but he also had to say –
It's for people who like to mess with computers.
Oh, that hurt a little bit.
Oh.
It hurt a little bit, and we got some feedback on that.
We got a lot of feedback on that, but I didn't want to spend a lot of time dwelling on it
because I think we said our piece, and I didn't really want to make this into a bashing thing,
but I did – I wanted to – Ben Frank like – what is this?
Ben Franklin Gates.
Ben Franklin Gates wrote in.
There you go.
He says, I agree on how unfortunate it has been for someone in his position with experience
would throw down a blanket statement about Linux,
but I've noticed something about Leo over the years.
My theory is that there are two Leo Laports.
Wait, wait.
He's cloned himself?
Two Leo Laports.
Transporter accident.
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
He's Thomas Riker.
I was going to say, do we have the evil Riker?
Oh, my God.
Where's the real Riker?
He's been stuck down there for a while, and he's a little bit –
You're wearing the gold shirt.
I knew it.
And my beard actually peels off.
That was a great DS9 episode.
That was so good.
Oh, man.
So here's the two Leos.
You have one who answers questions for noobs and plays the childish grandpa figure
and articulates those sponsor commercials in his innocent golden voice.
Then there's the real Leo, the real that mostly comes out on Twit when he's among his peers.
He speaks his mind critically and in general shows more of himself than he likes to let on,
like when Dover walks around to poke him.
I think that Leo did not genuinely mean what he said when he discouraged Linux.
He was just wearing his childish grandpa hat to explain how useful and compelling Linux is
would have meant to break out of character.
What do you think, Chase?
I actually agree with that.
What do you think, Matt?
Go ahead, Matt.
I agree.
I actually agree with that.
I think – because looking back on what I said, saying that my statement was that he does know better,
and he does know better, so that actually – yeah, I can see that happening.
Chase, are there two Leos?
Yeah.
Oh, absolutely.
I mean, obviously, when he does his nationally syndicated show over the weekend,
he's appealing to the, dare I say, 55-plus audience.
And I've noticed that he even kind of sometimes speaks in a little bit of a southern twang.
Yeah, you know, he's very slow and deliberate, and he knows he needs to convey a message
and also plug his network.
But, you know, that's the thing, though.
He's on the air, and he's providing stupid support calls for people.
Right.
And, you know, it's true.
I think, yeah, he was assuming a little bit about his audience based on the demo.
These people are probably not smart enough for what I'm about to tell them.
And if you're an advanced user, you're not going to be listening to his show anyway, for the most part.
Unless you want to pull clips to make fun of him.
Right, right.
I mean, I'm not a fan of that.
You know, but, I mean, you're not going to go to listen to the tech guy on the weekend
to learn about the latest tech news.
No, but this –
After Kim Commando.
Yeah, exactly.
This goes back to my point where I think the most potential for Linux switchers are people like yourself
who are technically qualified to install a distribution, to download an ISO and burn it to a CD.
But I would say this, though, if I'm listening to his show casually over the weekend,
because I'm a tech fan, you know, I listen to Leo and I follow Leo for a while,
and maybe I'm considering Linux and then I hear statements from him about it,
it could potentially make me go, you know –
That's what I was worried about.
You know, maybe I won't even bother.
Now, I know better, you know, I've learned and I have an open mind about things,
but not a lot of people may have that.
Yeah, that's what I was worried about last week.
It was sort of that – the drive-by impression for people who are looking at their options right now.
I agree.
They get Grandpa Leo's advice and they go, ah, you know what, I'm going to do that Chromebook instead,
or, oh, you know what, I'm going to do that Windows 8 machine.
Well, you know, the thing is, you know, a lot of people that probably don't even consider the Chromebook,
or they consider other things like that.
They just stick to what they know.
They'll stick to Windows because that's what the majority of people know.
They're afraid.
And what Leo does, it doesn't encourage that openness.
Right.
That experimentation.
And it's very, very scary, and not only that, then no one learns anything.
And it keeps you listening because you've got to keep getting them tips.
Right after these messages.
Right.
In fact, why don't we take a break right here, just as Leo would do,
because our next message is going to prove me wrong.
I've been saying this for technical users.
Our next email says it's not for technical users at all.
It's better for brand new users, and he's got a compelling argument why.
But first, let me tell you about my mobile phone provider.
Yeah, my mobile phone provider, Ting.
Ting is mobile that makes sense.
No BS mobile service provider, no contracts, no early termination fee,
and you only pay for what you use.
This has been a lifesaver for me over the last few weeks
as we've been working out of the studio having Ting,
having to be able to just click or tap, I should say,
a button in my Android device and have Wi-Fi come on
and know that I'm just paying for what I use.
Because everything on Ting is pay for what you use.
You turn on hotspot, tethering, text messaging, picture messaging.
You just pay for what you use.
They take your minutes, your messages, your megabytes.
They add them all up at the end of the month.
Whatever bucket you fall into, that's what you pay.
And it makes so much sense.
And in fact, Chase, check this out.
So I got the Nexus 5, as you know, on the Ting network, right?
Yep.
So I hit this Ting button, this app right here on my phone.
Watching you do that right now.
And I could do the dashboard too.
I mean, they have a really, like the Ting dashboard.
Like the web app, or are you talking about the one?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
So they have an awesome web app.
Whoa, hi there.
Check that out.
Ooh, it's a media.
I didn't know I had the music pipe.
It's called a multimedia.
So they have the dashboard, but also right here on the phone,
which I'm not showing on the screen,
I have all of the same information available to me
at the tap of a button.
I can see, like, I've used 20 megabytes.
Rekai has used zero megabytes for this billion period
because he's always on Wi-Fi.
Yeah, so you can always see which category you're in.
Yeah, and when you have multiple devices, it's really easy.
But even when you have one device, you want to track your usage.
It's straightforward.
It's very easy.
I can see minutes, messages, megabytes.
I can set alerts.
I can activate, deactivate devices, set up call forwarding
for both devices, all from the mobile app
or from the web standards app that they have on the web
where you can even just, like, I've actually never even needed
to call Ting.
I've always activated my phones through the Ting dashboard,
transferred phones through the Ting dashboard.
When Matt activated his Note 2, he did it through the Ting dashboard.
That's right.
The great thing is, like, if you ever got stuck,
you call my 1-855-TING-FTW, and an actual person answers the phone.
And I'll tell you something.
I don't know if they want me to share this story or not,
but we got an email from a viewer who was like,
I wasn't in a position to get Ting, but I called them up
and talked to their support reps about my options on another network
and just, like, they helped me pick the right phone for me
because they were on disability and they had a very limited budget.
Wow.
And they were getting a government-sponsored phone,
and Ting helped them, like, through the process,
even though they weren't going to get a sale at the end of the day.
And this is the thing about Ting is they're just an awesome company.
And to that end, on their blog, they just put up a post,
the top six reasons why students should never sign a cell phone contract.
And this is something you really want to go through if you're a student.
And by the way, if you are a student, Ting also has a promotional program
for students that is awesome.
They'll get you a ton of free minutes if you help spread the word about Ting,
so you want to read up on that.
And if you're in a contract right now, they'll help you get out of that contract.
You can go to ting.com slash ETF.
But do me a favor.
Go to linux.ting.com.
Linux.ting.com, that lets them know you heard about it right here on this show,
but it also will save you $25 off your first device.
If you're going to bring your own device and they've got a BYOD page
where you can find out what devices you can bring, lots of good Android devices,
the iPhone 4, 4S, and the iPhone 5, you can also bring those over.
If you bring your own device, they'll take $25 off your first month.
For some folks like me, that means your first month is free.
When you add up the ETF, the total savings over the life of your plan,
because there's no contract here, so you just keep getting the value
every single month by paying for what you use.
And when you consider that $25 discount, it's an incredible deal.
So go to linux.ting.com.
That lets them know that you appreciate them keeping us on the air
and they have a savings calculator right there for you to plug in your current bill
and see if maybe you could save a bunch of money.
And start actually helping clean up the mobile industry,
because at the end of the day, what Ting is doing is providing genuine,
valid competition that the duopoly that runs the mobile industry in the US
so far has not had to answer to.
And finally, finally, somebody is challenging them,
making them clean up the way they do business,
forcing them to provide everyone better service,
forcing them to expand their networks,
and you can help be part of that by going to linux.ting.com,
sign up for Ting, and forcing the hands of that duopoly
to treat everyone a little bit better.
And a big thank you to Ting for sponsoring Linux Unplugged.
Linux.ting.com.
I've said it before and I'll say it again,
once I'm out of my freaking contract and I know...
We're going to have a party.
Yeah, I'm ready to rock.
Yeah, all right.
So let's talk about Urban120's email.
He wrote in and said,
Linux is actually easier for new users than it is for the technically inclined.
And I was like, what?
What?
He says, hi Chris and Matt and Chase.
Hi.
Thanks for making awesome shows.
I regularly listen to LastLinux Unplugged and TechSnap.
Well, thank you, Urban120.
Now go listen to Unfilter and Coder Radio and SciByte
and FoShow and BSD Now.
Where have you been?
He says, I actually think that Linux is easier to use for the average user
when something goes wrong or when they don't know how to do something.
It's simple.
The answer is the terminal.
If something goes wrong in Linux, you can usually solve it from the terminal.
And if you're talking with someone on a phone,
it is much easier to dictate what they need to type
than how to navigate them through menus or options, which is very true.
We were just trying to navigate you through Skype.
If I could have just told you what to type in the terminal,
that would have been a lot easier.
He says, Urban says, this happened to me a while ago.
I installed Manjaro on a friend's computer.
My friend called me to ask me how to install TeamSpeak on Linux.
I replied, press Control-Alt-T, type in PACKMAN-S, TeamSpeak 3.
And in a minute, his problem was solved.
Easy as that.
If I want to tell him that in Windows or any other OS with a non-CLI method,
it would have taken much more time.
Thanks for making the awesome shows, Urban120.
Do you think his premise there requires a Linux expert in the wings
to help him out?
Boy, you know, I think in some circumstances that makes sense.
But for example, installing a package, certainly.
If you're troubleshooting something, though,
you know, command line is not always going to be that helpful
unless you're trying to actually pull down error messages
and then actually send them to a forum.
What I like about the terminal, though, is that, you know,
like say I sent Chase home with the Bonobo, which would never happen.
But let's say I sent Chase home.
Wait, wait, that was part of the deal of me being here today.
That is my baby. My baby.
You have three upstairs.
Shared custody, boys. Shared custody.
All right, we'll work something out.
I could open up the SSH port.
I could have Chase forward SSH on his router, or I could do it.
And then if Chase ever had a problem, I could SSH into his box
and pretty much fix it from the command line for him.
Is that code for something?
No.
Okay.
Sounds a little dirty, though.
It does.
Sounds a little dirty.
Well, I mean, so there is definitely an advantage to the terminal.
I guess what I like about it is that there's an option there.
There's a route there.
I feel like everything that the user would want to adjust
in the normal course of using their computer needs to have a GUI way to do it.
But if you're going to get crazy, like anything,
here's the Windows equivalent, Chase, and I think,
tell me if you're comfortable with this.
I say any time you do something that is equivalent to editing the registry
or a config.ini file on Windows,
it's fair to also have to open up the terminal on Linux.
Like, they're equivalent there.
If you're comfortable in going to the registry,
you should be comfortable going to the terminal.
But the thing is, it's honestly very rare for me to have to go in the registry.
And I think it probably is.
This makes it seem like more of the norm to do the terminal thing.
Does that scare you?
Well, no, it doesn't scare me, but why should you have to go down to that level
when it should be good from the start?
What if it has always been better to do it from the terminal
and all of the options that we've been working on to get away from that
have actually been more in error and just having a more concise, easy,
available way to do it via the terminal through some basic commands?
Nothing overly complicated.
Maybe that actually is the superior way to manage these types of things.
You know, maybe if there was a show that would walk me through...
To show you how to do these things on Linux?
How to walk through commands and do certain things.
Like a how-to Linux show?
You know, that would be nice to do.
But it's one of those things where the user,
when they're walking into this world and they're moving into a Linux world,
they're not even going to know anything to do.
I mean, all they know is, I have this distro.
I'm going to put it in my disk drive, if they have a disk drive,
and they're going to try to install it.
Well, you know, I'll tell you, I just installed that 14.04 install last night,
and so far I've installed Chromium, Skype, and Flux, like the screen-flux app.
But none of that.
I haven't had to open the terminal once to do any of that.
And to be fair, there are a number of GUI tweak tools that are gaining in power.
They're actually becoming very powerful and quite good.
So I would like, I think it was Windows tweak,
or I forget exactly what the Windows equivalent was,
but Windows power tools, I think is what it was.
Very much like that, where you can really get under the hood and play with stuff.
Yeah, I'm just thinking the basic common user, they're just not going to do that.
True.
Even as an advanced user, I rarely have to go to the command window in Windows.
I mean, there are certain things, with the exception of the problem that I was having the other night
where I sent you a Viber or whatever, and I was ready to destroy my computer,
and I was ready to give up technology.
What was going on? I don't remember. Oh, that's right.
So on certain files in Windows, when I right-clicked on certain files,
Explorer would crash because there was something going on with the contextual menu.
And do you remember what my response was to that?
I was like, yeah, everybody talks about Windows like, oh, it's modern.
Oh, God, no.
To this point, Windows is like, okay, this feels like it's straight out of 1989.
There are some aspects that feel real old and busted.
And I'm jumping through old system tools to find the contextual menu that is bugged
so I can pull it out of there without having to reinstall my whole freaking operating system.
Yeah, it can happen in Windows, too.
See, what I wanted to try to float past you is the concept that I feel like almost we've been marketed
to believe that the terminal is like this thing we shouldn't have to do.
Like if you have to go to the terminal, it's a failure.
It is a failure in a sense of providing and exposing a way to do something via a GUI.
And I think in reality, and I think if you look at what Microsoft is doing,
Microsoft's high-end tools, they're going command line.
They're going PowerShell, server core, right?
Everything that you now do when you administer an exchange box,
all of that GUI is doing is executing PowerShells underneath the hood.
And you could open up PowerShell, and you could actually just execute those same commands.
Same with Latter-day.
And Microsoft is now moving that direction.
And I believe part of it was this marketing hype to get us to buy these new-fangled computers
and, oh, my God, you no longer have to use the command line.
And the reality is, in some ways, the command line is the superior way to do it.
It is the most efficient way.
And I've also worked with users who are completely and totally computer illiterate
who had no problem if you just gave them instructions using the command line.
Well, you know, I would even go so far as to say I would agree with you
if we were to have a Windows Wiki and a Linux Wiki,
and we were telling people to basically use those as your tools to solve your problem.
At that point, when I can copy and paste those commands and drop them in a terminal,
then I agree with you on that.
Because then there's no room for mistyping.
There's no room for mistakes.
Boom, done, bam.
Let me say this, though.
The danger in that, and I've seen it so many times,
where people blindly follow instructions, and they can cause some serious harm.
Well, that's what happened to Leo in our last show.
Right.
This is true.
And they just blindly copy commands based on a Wiki where someone can obviously,
you know, if they edit it at the impromptu time, then all of a sudden...
Or the command's old or whatever.
I guess, you know, part of the thing a GUI gives the user is a sense of security
and a step-by-step approach.
If somebody's managing the details for you behind the scenes,
you're not going to mess something up.
Oh, yeah, okay.
Right.
Or there's protectionary measures like, oh, you forgot to type this specific thing in.
And when you're working in the command line, if you forget a character or you forget a dash
or you forget something that you're supposed to do,
sometimes it doesn't really give you full feedback of what you missed.
I think what you can equate that to is abstraction.
And I think anytime you layer on too much abstraction, it's too much.
I'll give you an example.
My wife had to get our sunroof repaired, and we had a rental that, you know,
they just gave us while we had the work done.
And they no longer had first and second and third gear.
It was just L and drive.
Yeah.
I don't like that.
That is too much abstraction.
I want to know what gear the car's in.
Like, to me, that is a bit of data that is relevant to how I drive.
Right.
And I feel the same way with the computer.
I feel like sometimes too much abstraction, when I'm on the line to make something work,
is a bad thing.
Now, I will say this.
If they took away the command line from Windows from me, for example, I would be livid.
I mean, I like having the flexibility and the ability to go in and do certain commands
and do certain things, you know, like I use a lot of the network tools from command line to this day,
releasing and renewing an IP address is a great example.
Trace routes, you know, things like that.
I will always do that from the command line because it's the most efficient way of doing it.
I don't need a GUI to do that.
Well, Urban120 has joined us in the Mumble Room,
and he had a little follow-up to his email about Linux being easier for new users.
Urban, what did you want to add?
I would just like to add that GUI is great, and I actually prefer it.
But if you need to do just something simple with someone that doesn't know how to use computers,
it's much simpler to just say what he needs to do in a simple way.
In Terminal, it helps you do that.
Right, you can explain it to him over the phone, and you don't have to be vague like,
yeah, click on this thing, it should be about in the left corner, and then you should see this option, click that.
I don't see that option.
No, you need to click the square, not the circle, then you'll see that option.
Like, that's very hard to do over the phone.
And I've done it plenty of times, and that's why I've probably tried just about every decent remote desktop solution that's out there,
so that way I didn't have to be stuck in that very situation.
So, I agree, Urban.
Yeah, and if you have text, he can tell you what he just read, and you can tell it back to him,
and you say, okay, just do that, and it's much simpler over the phone.
But you need someone that knows how to use networks.
And on top of that, you could even email them, like, do this, you know, type this in, that kind of stuff.
Alright, Chase, well, I want to pick your brain a little bit about some of the things that,
I know you mentioned the mini distro aspect, but I know there's more things that, as a computer enthusiast,
as a technology enthusiast, that have kept you from switching to Linux,
because, I mean, you've had plenty of opportunities and thought about it,
so we're going to talk about that here in just a second.
But first, I want to thank our second sponsor this week.
It is the awesome folks at DigitalOcean.
Who is DigitalOcean?
Well, they are a company that has based their entire technology stack off of Linux.
And if you use the promo code unpluggedapril, you're going to get two months of a DigitalOcean droplet for free.
If you haven't heard about DigitalOcean before, they are a simple cloud hosting provider
dedicated to offering the most intuitive and easy way to spin up a cloud server.
Users can create a cloud server in 55 seconds, and pricing plans start at only $5 per month
for 512 megabytes of RAM, a 20 gigabyte SSD, one CPU, and a terabyte of transfer for $5.
It's a fixed cost. You know exactly what you're going to pay.
And DigitalOcean has data selling locations in New York, San Francisco, Amsterdam, and Singapore.
Boy, I'd love to go to Amsterdam and just say I'm going for sponsor reasons.
But the best part, I've got sponsor problems. I've got to go. I've got to go to Amsterdam.
The interface over on DigitalOcean is super simple, intuitive.
Power users can also replicate on a larger scale.
And what I love about it is somebody who appreciates good design.
And also, Chase, I think you can relate to this.
You and I both really focus on the content of our podcast.
Every aspect of them. We're very particular about what we put out.
All of the quality from top to bottom.
DigitalOcean is exactly the same way.
They come up with a concept. They come up with a feature.
They make sure it fits within their narrative for what their users need.
And then they just refine and refine and iterate on that until it is absolutely perfect.
Their control panel reflects that. Their API reflects that.
And the technology that DigitalOcean sits on top of reflects that.
SSDs, KVM, tier one bandwidth.
All servers come with a gigabit a second network interfaces.
And you get that terabyte just fixed right there.
They run all on top of amazing hardware.
And all backed by that simple control panel.
Private networking is also available.
Global image transfers. There's so many great options.
So go over to DigitalOcean.com and use the promo code unpluggedapril.
That will give you a $10 credit.
So you can grab that $5 a month rig and try it out for two months.
There is a Google Plus community.
There's actually a couple of Google Plus community threads going right now on the Jupiter Colony Google Plus community.
About what folks are using their DigitalOcean droplets for.
Minecraft servers.
These are a crazy great way to run Minecraft servers at an incredible value with amazing performance.
You could go from $300 a month with your Minecraft server to $5 to $10 a month.
You got a production website. Maybe the backend infrastructure for an app you're working on.
Maybe you just need something to sync your contacts.
Your BitTorrent sync files.
And I don't know, maybe your Quasal IRC connector.
Throw it up on a DigitalOcean droplet and it will cost you $5 per month.
And if you use the promo code unpluggedapril, you'll get a $10 credit.
DigitalOcean.com. Unpluggedapril.
And a big thank you to DigitalOcean for sponsoring Linux Unplugged.
You guys are awesome.
And you guys are, they're hiring too.
So if you guys are looking for work out there, go over to DigitalOcean.com.
Click that word hiring. They've got lots of gigs available.
They're blowing up right now.
It is awesome to watch this company go.
And it is so cool. It is so amazing that Linux is powering this kind of growth in the industry.
And it's exactly why some of the stuff we cover on this show has big, big long term ramifications
for not just us, but the industry as a whole.
DigitalOcean.com and use the promo code unpluggedapril.
Lovin' my droplet. Lovin' it.
Okay Chase.
Yes.
So.
So I'm going to ask the distros. Because I feel like that's a bit of a cop out.
Because you know you were going to go Ubuntu if you were going to do it.
Not necessarily. No.
Really?
Yeah, really.
And the reason is simple.
What if there's something better?
I mean, how do I know, right?
Well, there is.
See?
Oh!
Oh no!
See? See?
Get in the mumble room so they can yell at me.
Yeah, so I mean, that's just one thing, right?
Or let's say I went with UnBootoo for a minute.
Okay, there's different versions, right?
Yeah, so when you go and download it, it's like, which one do I download?
Different distops and different stuff.
Right, right.
I mean, there's multiple options of options.
So you know too much, in a way.
You know enough to be paralyzed by choice.
Right.
But not enough to make that choice.
And then there's the whole other areas of, okay, what are good resources for me to go for support?
For example.
Alright, some people may yell, alright, go to the Reddit.
Go to Reddit.
But what if I ask you the same thing about Windows?
Well, the majority of my friends know Windows, so I just go to them, right?
Ah, yes.
Right.
You know, and part of the thing is, and maybe this is a stereotype, and maybe I'm wrong on this,
but as a Windows user maybe making my way into the Linux world and saying,
hey, I'm wanting to step my foot in the water, I want to learn how to swim,
I feel I get two different responses, either, ew, you're a Windows guy, I hate you,
or then you get five or six, seven or eight different suggestions on what you should be doing.
Ah, yes.
We've run into that too.
We've talked about that.
So the community can be a bit of a barrier.
Like you feel like you go down a path and then you get yelled at for going down that path.
Right.
And then when you do go down that path, then you have eight different options,
and if you don't pick the right one, you don't open the right door,
then you're going to get abused for it.
We've talked about this too.
We've wondered if that's a problem.
And I wonder too if that's not just the Internet.
If you got a Mac and then you got one text editor,
wouldn't then a bunch of advocates of another text editor jump on you?
But that's a little bit different than an operating system choice, I feel,
because everybody has their preferences for apps,
but now you're breaking it down to an OS level.
Everybody has their preference for OS.
I mean, I've seen it in the JB community.
People love Ubuntu or they like BSD.
Or Arch.
Or OpenSUSE.
Right.
There's so many different options.
And so what do I go with?
What would be the best for me?
And then someone may go, well, what programs do you use or whatever?
And then it's like, is there a simple resource to say, all right, well, I like using Final Cut.
It works great for me on Mac.
Some people said, well, you could use Premiere on Windows.
And I'm like, yeah, it's true, but I want something that is solid and works great.
And I don't have to worry about doing weird conversions and stuff.
And then another thing for me is I'm also a gamer.
I know Steam is on Linux and that's great.
But like a big game that I play right now, you know it.
Battlefield.
That's Origin, right?
Yeah.
Linux?
Nope.
So I'd have to do some sort of emulation, right?
Yeah.
Or if that works.
Or in some cases, Wine maybe, kind of, sort of, not really.
Or maybe, you know, Dualboot.
Yeah.
What about Dualboot?
What is that?
So what does the Dualboot situation look like for you?
Does that seem crazy to you?
Well...
Like, does it seem pointless in a way?
I...
The only Dualbooting I do is on Mac.
You know, I do Bootcamp.
And the only time I do that is when I...
If I'm going to do any type of gaming streaming, maybe.
So it would be like, kind of like that.
So if you have a Mac, you Dualboot between...
Only via PC, you Dualboot between Windows and Linux.
Right.
I just don't like Dualbooting that often.
I just like turning it on and just going in, you know.
So gaming is definitely a big barrier.
And thankfully, that's a situation that is rapidly approving on the...
It is.
No, and I agree with that.
But then also, is SLI supported in Linux?
See, I don't know if that is or not.
Yeah.
I'm an NVIDIA guy, so I don't know.
You use SLI still?
I don't mean to be judgy.
No, no.
I'm not trying to be judgy.
I have NVIDIA 580 SLI graphic cards.
Oh, okay, okay.
So you got 580s.
You're trying to squeak a little life out of it.
Well, they are old.
They're a couple of seasons old.
Well, and NVIDIA's support in Linux is actually very friendly, actually.
A nice little thing.
They've got the great GUI that's actually what I use.
It's what I prefer to use.
It's actually pretty good.
Yeah, I agree.
Potentially.
I could definitely see how certain games, you know, any app...
Anytime you get application specifics like AutoCAD or Premiere, I can see how it's...
Yeah, I'm not worried, obviously, on the website, I think.
But then you start going into other areas, like, for example, the simplicity of, say,
if you call it simplicity, of setting up a printer, you know.
Okay.
I would actually argue that's easier under Linux.
Well, actually, I would know that.
I mean...
I think distro-specific.
On some distros, it's stupid.
It's actually way easier than on Windows.
And on other distros, it's ridiculously stupid hard.
So, it really depends.
It definitely depends.
It depends on the distro.
Yeah.
Like, if you had a brand new Arch install, it'd take you forever.
Like, if I started a poll right now on the last subreddit, I bet you $100 that I'm going
to get so many fragments of things.
Chase, this is your first...
Right.
You need to use this.
This is the best to use.
This is what you should use.
Yeah.
I think that's a big problem.
I think, too, there's always those specific things.
I look at it like this.
If you could do 80% of your computing under one operating system, that...
So I guess what I come back to is, for me, what got me onto Linux was the technological
curiosity of it.
It fascinated me from a standpoint that there was an operating system, not necessarily controlled
by any single company, that was created by a bunch of individuals that have come together
to work on something.
And I like that from a standpoint of...
I'm not necessarily a fan of where either large computer OS manufacturer, commercial
OS manufacturer, is going right now.
I don't know if you've seen the mockups for OS 10.10.
Have you seen them?
No.
They look like iOS 7, and it looks horrible.
It looks really, really bad.
And I definitely don't like the new Windows Start menu.
I don't like any of the direction Windows is going either.
No, I don't like it either.
Like, for example, I'm staying on Windows 7, and I'm staying on 10.8.5 on OS X.
So let's go four years down the road.
You see how there could be some...
There's a problem you run into here, where both these now, 10.8 and OS Windows 7, are
getting pretty old, pretty long in the tooth.
Ubuntu, you're using it right now.
It looks pretty good.
It looks pretty modern, right?
You've got Chrome.
It's just one of those things where there's certain things that...
Gaming is a big one for me, right?
It's huge for me, and I know there's Steam, and I know it's getting better.
I mean, you were just telling me about the green lighting.
If your favorite games were on Linux, let's just...
Like we're talking four or five years down the road.
If your favorite games were on Linux, so it's a whole new generation, maybe one or two generation
of games have come out now.
They've all shipped with Linux versions, the ones you want to play.
Maybe not all games, but the ones you want to play have.
Let's say that's removed.
What now is the barrier?
What is the problem from switching?
The other things that I use, for example, you know me, I do a lot of game streaming,
and so...
Multi-media productions.
So Wirecast, for example, only Mac and PC.
Open Broadcaster software, XSplit, some of these other programs, PC only.
So I haven't seen a Linux equivalent to that.
But you don't need that on every computer.
And that's true.
I worked with Webcam Studio, which was supposed to be an equivalent for Linux, but didn't
quite work out as well as we'd hoped.
For example, I think for a system that...
Like a Skype machine for my production, or for example, a secondary box where I'm not
doing main production stuff, or an older laptop that I haven't used in a while.
Those are some situations where I could see myself installing something like this.
This is very snappy to me, obviously I'm not doing anything hardcore with it, but it works
for me.
The other thing too, some of my experiences in the past, where the distribution didn't
work with everything on my laptop perfectly, so I have to jump through...
Now I understand people are going to say, well, you have to do that with Windows.
But at least with Windows, it feels like I can install a driver easily.
Has that changed?
Yeah, a lot of that's improved over the years.
Like for example, I installed the NVIDIA driver, I go to one screen and I choose which driver
I want, and it just goes and installs it.
For the most part now in Linux, it either works out of the box or it doesn't work.
Because unlike Windows, all of the drivers are included at the kernel level in Linux,
so when you install a distribution, it pretty much supports everything out of the box.
Now I'll say this, and you can correct me if I'm wrong, but I feel like with Linux,
and this is one of the parts that really excite me, is I can really take full advantage of
my system resources depending on what I'm doing.
I always feel that with Windows, and even with Mac, that there's some bloated overhead
or there's something happening that's hindering my full potential of using my system.
And with Linux, I get this impression that it unlocks something, and it gives me more
power behind it.
So one of the things that's interesting, and it's kind of hard to translate, you can't
put it on the side of a box, but on Windows and on Mac, this is a horse that I beat all
the time on this show, but the file systems on both of those operating systems are very
old now.
But the thing is, if you think about the politics of a company that has to ship a product, it
doesn't do them any good to make something that's really low level and something that
the users never see, it doesn't do them much good to spend a lot of time and money on that.
It's not a sexy feature they can put a bullet point on a box, right?
But open source, everything's out there in the open, and when something sucks, everyone
in the entire world can see it.
And there's a peer pressure about keeping your components that you're responsible for
up to date and modern.
And so what ends up happening in Linux is a lot of the little things, you know, how
an application talks to the file system, right?
All these little things that Windows and Mac and Apple, they just can't really care about
because they can't advertise it as something they've spent time on.
But in Linux, there's this open pressure to keep all of that lower level stuff really
tight.
Not only that, not only because they're constantly pushing on ARM devices and they're trying
to just keep really competitive in that space, but also because so many people can see the
flaws that it becomes incumbent upon the person responsible for those flaws to fix them because
otherwise their dick's hanging out in the open and everybody can see that they got a
small dick.
So, you know, and the other things that kind of concern me too, not so much, but, you know,
obviously continuation of support, I mean, with so many fragments and so many different
distributions of Linux out there, you know, something might get discontinued or something
might change in the very next version, you know, it seems like, to me, there's a lot
of turnover and a lot of change.
I mean, a lot of change that happens, I mean, even from one month to the next.
So that distro will be supported for five years, the one you're on right now, which
is pretty good.
But there are distributions, like the one that I primarily use, where every day it's
called a rolling release, where there's new stuff that's just integrated continuously.
Now the flip side is, there's never a big version.
There's never a Windows 7 and a Windows 8, there's never a big jump, it's every day something
is updated.
It's a continuing roll.
And here's one other thing.
For example, you know me, I have an HTC One.
Yep.
It's an Android device, and one of the first things I did was root it, and then, you know,
I've been installing my own company.
You Linux hacker.
I've been installing, you know, all these custom ROMs and that sort of thing, right?
So for example, I know Linux is very heavily customizable, right?
And you know, one of the things that kind of I like about Windows and I like about Mac
is, well, I know that you can do some customizations.
For the most part, you know, the base level is always the same.
I feel like I could get myself in a world of trouble.
And honestly, because, and then, and then what, you know.
That sounds like, I mean, some of these things sound a little bit like there's been a narrative
built up around Linux, because there are some desktop environments where it could be like
this custom thing, like, you know, very unique to Chase Nunes, and nobody else has a desktop
like Chase Nunes.
Sure.
But right now, you are using something called Unity, which is, you can modify it, but pretty
much what you see right now is what you get.
If you change the background, the sidebar will change color.
There's your customization.
Literally, you can change the background and the side, and that's pretty much it.
Now you can install apps to tweak it more, but then there's desktops, and I'm not hating
on KDE, but I'm just saying there's desktops like KDE where every pixel on the screen is
pretty much, you've customized it yourself, and you can choose where it's laid out.
But if you were to go with the most common Linux entry point, which is Ubuntu, and it
would be probably their LTS, you would have this experience, very Mac OS X-like in its
customized options, with probably a little bit more options.
It's not going to get you in a world of hurt, but what I'm trying to get to the root of
is how to kind of push through some of these, because some of these misconceptions were
right a few years ago, and I think they really took root, and they've sort of just continued
to exist when the folks that are working on these distributions have really spent a lot
of time to fix some of this stuff and make it better and address some of those concerns,
but that message isn't out there.
No, and it obviously goes back to how Leo, on his nationally syndicated radio show, pushed
the narrative about Linux, and it pushed the stereotype.
And you know who you are.
If you're somebody who doesn't want to mess with it, I just want to buy something on Amazon,
send an email to my kids, look at some websites.
If that's you, you don't want to mess with it, probably not a good choice.
And here's the thing, right?
You know me, Chris.
I'm not running Linux.
I don't have a Linux laptop, but hearing that freaking cringes me as a fan of software,
as a fan of furthering technology, and it frustrates me because when I'm using Linux
right now and I'm using Ubuntu, Leo jumped through advanced things that he didn't have
to do, and then he screwed himself up, and then what does he do when he screws himself
up?
Well, so he doesn't look bad himself.
He just deflects and he badmouths it.
Yeah, it's not my fault.
Yeah.
No, I didn't do anything wrong.
I mean, seeing something like this and messing around with this, this is solid.
This is very, very nice, and I know this is beta, and this is very, very nice.
I mean, the app store, if you call it the app store, where you can just software center,
these are the kind of things that I would love to be able to, and I might do it, where
I will say, hey, dad, I'm going to throw Ubuntu, is that okay, and throw it on there.
I guess, too, what I was kind of curious, too, if you looked at it so much, when you
looked at it, do you look at, is it really, I guess what I'm trying to get past, are you
really afraid of what the community is going to say?
Is that really a barrier?
No, it honestly is.
Part of it is.
Because that seems like that's on us.
That's why I feel really bad about that.
Part of it is, but then again, you've got to realize something.
I understand that for years that the community has been bashed by Windows users.
They've been bashed by OSX users.
They've been bashed.
They're in battle, Chase.
And they're also bashed within their own communities, but honestly, they're in bashed within their
own communities, so you have internal factions, right?
So you have all these different things, you know, what if there was a federation of Linux
users, call it the Linux federation, where you have all these different factions where
it doesn't matter because at the end of the day, you are still using Linux?
Well, let me help you out with that.
Essentially, we're the maquis, and that's the best description out there.
We are the maquis.
We literally, in every sense of the word, go into it with a very maquis mindset.
If we can't make it work, we take a little ship and throw a bomb on it.
No, I mean, it's very maquis-like.
I think most of the challenges you're probably facing, too, are task-centered.
How do I accomplish X?
How do I accomplish Y?
Can I accomplish Y and X in the same level of quality that I accomplished it with the
other operating system?
Right.
And this is why I'm super excited to be doing the How To Linux show, just because of the
fact, I mean, even doing the show today and looking at the chat room, I've had literally
probably five different suggestions of what Linux distro I should start with.
Yeah.
There is no answer.
Right.
And that's the thing, right?
That inherently is one of the core problems, is where you have a new user or an experienced
technical user like I am, and what should I be going into?
What would be the easiest transitional thing for me?
Well, I know Riley wanted to make a point about the community.
Go ahead, Riley.
Yeah.
So I'd say the community does not matter.
Whatever you like, you need to go with.
If you're a new user, don't listen to the community at all.
What I suggest is go on on Distro Watch, pick out a couple of distros that you think sound
cool.
If you want to use Zorin, go for it.
But look at those screenshots of it and look at maybe some user reviews and go from there.
Now Brett Romney wanted to bring up the point that Brett Mitt Romney said, all this Ubuntu
bashing is bad for new switchers.
Go ahead, Mr. Romney.
Yeah.
First of all, it's our team.
It's fine.
Okay.
And well, I believe that a lot of people are misinformed by the other people that I truly
believe Ubuntu is one of the best options for newer users.
The constant bashing makes them, I don't know, more hesitant to use it, I kind of believe.
Woo-hoo!
Well, especially the unnecessary Unity bashing coming from, let's be honest, a lot of Netflix.
I think you guys give yourselves too much credit.
I don't think, I don't, Chase, have you heard a lot of Ubuntu bashing?
Has this been a thing?
I don't think this makes it outside our circle.
No, and it doesn't.
It doesn't.
But when, for example, you know, some people will talk to other like-minded individuals
and I'll say, all right, I'm thinking about moving to Linux.
What do you think I should move to?
And then you go to your friends and they'll give you some feedback.
And I consider the community my group of friends here.
So in that scenario, you get that person's opinion, right?
And they'll say, oh, well, Ubuntu sucks.
I mean, that's what Leo got.
Leo went into his chat room and his chat room immediately said, oh my God, Leo, you have
to uninstall Unity right now.
And it sent him down a path of borking his system.
Right.
And here's the thing, right?
If I started, you know, if I installed this and I went to you or if I went to Matt or
I went to any other member of the JV community and said, all right, I just installed this,
what should I do next?
I would probably get three or four different answers.
Yeah.
It's one of those things where at least like I know in the Windows world, all right, I
install Windows.
First thing you gotta do, install antivirus.
You know, there's a certain checklist, right?
I just raised my blood pressure just saying that.
I know.
No, first thing I do, install XP.
And then-
You get five different answers to which antivirus to install.
And if you asked an expert or your local expert how, you know, to help you with some problem
you have with Windows, you almost certainly get a different answer than someone else.
Linux is not unique in having multiple ways to skin a cat.
Right.
AWS has that.
Yeah.
The antivirus thing is a good point.
Like you'll see, you'll hear a lot of debates about which antivirus scanner is the best
one.
Do I need-
And it's gotten worse too.
Like do I need one for Linux, for example?
No.
But the thing is, it's kind of like that for desktops on Linux too.
Like it's the same thing with desktops.
Like, oh man, you can't use Unity.
You gotta use XFCE or you gotta use Cinnamon.
Let's be honest.
You gotta use Gnome.
Come on.
Let's be serious.
Oh God.
So I'm going to give you a recipe that's going to get you started really easy because it's
how I actually personally made the switch because I've not used Linux as long as Chris,
for example.
I started on a laptop.
I ran Windows for a long time on my main desktop because I wanted to game.
I wanted to do my stuff.
I wanted to do what I needed to do.
And I found that to be a really healthy compromise because I was free to not have to dual boot.
I was also free and not feeling obligated to use it.
But at the same time, when I wanted to use my laptop, I was, in a sense, forcing myself
to use it.
And I found that to be a really dynamic way of doing it.
Yeah.
That actually is a great way.
It's like you say, okay, now I have to be able to solve it under here.
And I wonder too, Chase, would you feel better?
So this Bonobo here is a System76 machine.
And they're a sponsor of the Linux Action Show.
And this came preloaded with Ubuntu, which looks a lot like what you see now.
If you were buying an end-to-end product solution, like you were buying a machine that has an
OS loaded on it from a vendor, maybe they even offer you a 1-800 number to call if you
get stuck.
Does that solve some of these problems?
Does it solve, like if you can trust, if you trust the brand of that vendor to pick the
right choices, does that kind of solve the which direction do I go first problem?
Is that the better approach?
Well, I guess it depends on what I'm starting off with.
If I'm...
Let's say you're going to buy a new laptop.
See, here's the thing, I'm a big do-it-yourself-er, I like to do my own thing.
So I like to build.
But let's say that I was starting, I didn't want to worry about it.
I would probably do that sort of thing, a System76.
But I also remember Dell doing Linux laptops for a while.
I don't know if they still do.
I think they do.
I'm not sure.
I can't really...
I know that they did...
Do they still have the Sputnik?
Yeah.
They're all over the map on it.
Don't they have the XPS 13 developer edition?
Yeah, that's the Sputnik.
That's the Sputnik.
Oh, sorry.
But you know, I will say this, when I was first starting off Windows a long, long, long,
long time ago, and when I was first starting out and I called at least one time, just one
time in my whole life I can remember calling Windows support for some issue, they make
you feel like a dumbass.
They make you feel so terrible.
Really?
It just felt like, you know, like, you are so stupid, let me hold your hand and walk
through the baby steps.
You know, now I don't know what System76 support is like, and you know, I'm just...
I'm not afraid of anything.
It's just that it would be nice...
That would be simple to have a, you know, a real simple, easy, where I just have a laptop,
it's ready to go.
Some of the harder...
Some of the more nebulous choices are made for you.
Right.
Well, and they do the testing for you too, you know, so that you don't have to worry
about future proofing your laptop.
But most importantly, my experience with their support, like back in 2008 when I got burned
by Dell and ended up going to these guys, I found that even all these years later on
laptops I don't even, you know, have support for anymore, I can still go to their actual
forum filled with the, you know, folks from that community as well as the tech support
guys and they'll still support me without making me feel like an idiot.
That's nice too.
See, that's good.
Yeah, I really like that.
That's not even an ad.
That's just legit endorsement.
And I think that's...
So I think that answers part of the problem there, but I think when...
And that's why I have felt like, because sometimes techie guys and gals will want to research
this stuff.
Like, it's fun to dig into it.
And that's why I've thought the best switchers for Linux for the next couple of years are
people like yourself who are capable of using Google, right?
Capable of understanding that there's some compromises that have to be made or some adjustments
that have to be made on how you do something.
And maybe different...
And you're familiar with like, you understand that sometimes the Mac does something one
way and Windows does something the other way.
So the concept that you might have to adjust your workflow behavior for an operating system
is not foreign to you.
So you're a good candidate in that regard.
You're a good candidate in the regard that you know how to use resources like chat rooms
and Reddit and forums.
So I've always thought like, if we could focus not so much on this mythical new user who's
never used a computer before and is going to magically pick a unicorn PC running Linux,
I thought it would make more sense to focus on a person like yourself who's fully aware
of how to do this.
And it could even capably do it themselves.
And I've always wondered, what could we clear out of the way?
And the thing that is kind of leaving me a little bummed as we wrap up is like, it kind
of sounds like in some ways, some of the best aspects of Linux, like you've characterized
it as two, like you didn't know which direction to go.
And I look at it as a lot of market dynamics at play, picking the best things.
All this choice also is, you can look at this as lots of choice.
And I love choice.
Like you can't have Android devices, right?
I love choice, yeah.
And so that's like...
But what's the flagship, right?
I mean, we see it in Android devices all the time where, all right, is it the Galaxy Note?
Is it the HTC One?
Well, I am shocked that Ubuntu hasn't sort of stood out from the outside to you.
I assumed, looking out from the outside, that you would have always seen Ubuntu as that
flagship standing out.
I'm not saying it is one way or the other, but I just kind of assumed that was the perception.
Is it, quote unquote, the flagship because there's more support behind it or there's
more money behind it or whatever?
It doesn't necessarily make it best if there's more money behind it.
So you would want the best technical solution.
I would want the best solution that takes advantage of my system hardware and that has
support for the programs that I want to use.
What if the best was harder than the other option?
I guess what the definition of harder is.
Like just a little more involved in getting set up.
Are you saying if you're going to switch, you'd rather go all in, like you're all cards
in?
I would want something that is inherently me, right?
If I have the choice, I would want the programs, obviously, that I'm going to use.
I would want a nice, beautiful interface.
I know some people like the live-in command line world or terminal.
I don't.
I like a beautiful, nice interface and something that is very easy for me to use but has those
advanced features for me to jump into when I need to.
But you want something that also feels like it's yours?
Yeah.
It's one of those things where, and the other things too is, obviously, if I have a piece
of hardware, I know that all my things at home, like my laptop, old laptop at home,
I know will run XP, sorry, Windows on there just fine.
But if I picked a Linux distro, what if it doesn't plug into all the pieces of hardware?
Just try a live CD and find out.
Right.
You can.
Here's another thing.
The beauty about Linux is you can always distro-hop.
I distro-hop like a jackrabbit all over the place too.
Yeah.
And a lot of us do.
A lot.
And that's the thing.
Especially if you make a separate home directory, which I'm sure somebody could show you how
to do, then you could go ahead and just go to wherever distro you want.
Exactly.
Because people usually don't start using Linux because of their own decisions.
But they usually have somebody to show them the way.
Right.
Yes.
And that's where I'm obviously very excited about how to Linux and that show is where
it's not just picking a Linux distribution for me.
It's about all the intangibles.
And giving real answers to these questions.
Right.
I mean, that's what I want to try to figure out is I want to try to solve these real,
these are real questions.
Yeah, they are.
Real problems.
Totally.
And how do we solve them for you?
Right.
I'm going to put a bet on Chase being a KDE guy.
I'm just going to put that out there.
I could see it happening.
But it's one of those things where it's also the beauty, I guess I would say, of Windows
and the beauty of Mac is, you know what?
It works.
I don't have to do much to keep it going.
I don't have to tweak every other day.
It's negative in the freedom dimension.
But at the same time, I know installing a program is pretty simple.
For example, when I was looking at chat programs, now, I knew that it was at, what was it?
The app?
Oh, the software center.
There was a software center.
But before that, I went to Google, I typed in XChat, I went to XChat.org or whatever.
And I was like, we got results for Fedora.
Right.
And I was like, all right, so which one do I install?
I'm like, no, no.
But see, that's the thing.
That's one of the issues, right?
It's like, when you say...
I think there's an intimidation factor here, that there's too much choice that it actually
scares you away.
Well, it's... that's the good thing, is there's something for everybody.
This intimidation factor is preventing them from even making an initial choice.
But it's not just intimidation factor, there's confusion.
Because for example, I went to go grab the Linux version of XChat.
XChat, yeah.
But that Linux version is not the same as another Linux version.
Right.
That's where there's confusion.
Yeah.
It's messy.
And because I'm like, wait, wait, Linux, I thought Linux is Linux.
No.
It's different in the sense, Linux is a general purpose technology platform.
Think of it that way.
There's a core kernel, like the Android runs on, but then there's solutions built on top
of that.
A lot of them are very, very, very, very similar.
Like they use a lot of the same tools and stuff, but they're each their own implementation
of that general purpose platform.
Think of it as a lower level thing, almost.
And I've learned about it, you know, firsthand in trying to set up that the...
Airtime server.
You know, there's Zambutu and there's all these different...
CentOS.
CentOS and Gentoo or something like that.
So you have all these different things and, you know, that's where I just...
That's where I need to learn because, you know, it gets so freaking confusing and obviously
confusion becomes...
Intimidation.
Intimidation, yeah.
Sure.
Go ahead, Poppy.
Yeah.
I think Chase needs to break out of his comfort zone.
He seems to be quite entrenched in that comfort zone and happy that the GUI gives him a sense
of security, he said earlier on, whereas, you know, a GUI on Windows, you could right
click a SQL database and drop it and you would ruin everyone's day within your company.
The GUI doesn't give you that sense of security that you think it does.
I think if you embrace the choice that you have with Linux and the option that...
The lack of lock-in almost in a sense.
Yeah.
It's open.
It's...
Without wishing to sound too much like a hippie, you know, you can embrace that openness.
Yeah.
But it's much harder to get support in the terminal than it is within a GUI because then
you know it can at least connect.
No.
Not at all.
Not if you can copy and paste what you're experiencing.
Not necessarily.
Yeah.
Look at how Leo did that.
That worked really well for him.
Oh!
That was great.
So let me break it down for you like this.
If I was to basically break this down into something that's just free of geek speak,
essentially Linux is like a Ford.
And then you've got your model, which is essentially your desktop environment, whatnot.
And then if you want to get into deeper things, you can then look at the trim.
You know, and it basically comes down to that sort of thing.
But I think when it comes to anything with Linux, you basically look at a base of what...
You've got your Ubuntu's and their variants.
There's Cousins and everything like that.
Or you've got your Arch and its variants and these types of things.
You kind of settle on the base that feels good.
Okay, I want compatibility.
I want it to work with my printers.
I want it to just get the job done.
I want to make sure gaming is being paid attention to.
And then you look at the variants surrounding that globe and then try those various variants.
Try different desktop environments.
And then I think it becomes a little less annoying in my opinion because then you have
something from which to try from I guess.
So what you're really saying is be open to experimentation.
Try it out.
Well, but within a smaller circle.
Instead of this shotgun approach to try everything under the sun, which is just...
It is intimidating.
Right, yes.
Find a base you like and start within that circle eventually.
Oh, I see.
So...
Start within Ubuntu base.
But how do you...
But how does he even know what base to start with?
I think that's part of the problem.
Well, that's experiments.
Compatibility.
I think with...
I agree with Matt.
I think this is a...
This is very much an analogy based show.
And if I'm... he's going to go down the car route, I'll go down the beer route.
I think if different Linux distros are like different beers, you start off with the basic
ingredients of, you know, hops, barley, water, yeast, and then you build upon that and you...
But you have to try them all in order to figure out what the best one is over the supermarket
brand beer.
That's interesting.
And that makes me beer thirsty too.
But no...
And you might be...
Maybe you're into dark beers.
Maybe you're into light beers.
If you know you're more into light beers, you're going to stick in that realm of influence
I think.
Exactly.
See?
Matt gets it.
This is where...
Honestly, as a technology fan and as a community fan, you know, I'm very, very excited about
getting into this area.
And I'm not afraid...
First off, when I was given the example of GUIs, I was given it from a general user's
perspective, not necessarily my perspective.
I want yours though.
Yeah.
But I mean, like, for example, I don't mind either.
I mean, obviously, depending on the application that I'm working with, you know, for example,
I'm going to work in command line when I'm doing network administration.
It's more comfortable for me.
But it's one of those things where, you know, I'm very, very excited about, and obviously,
you know, being able to work that into the How-To Linux show is going to be great because
everybody's going to be able to learn through me as this happens.
But also, I'm hoping to be that user, that person that helps bridge the gap between...
For other people that are watching trying to figure this stuff out.
Right.
And not being afraid.
You know, jumping in there with two feet, you know, it's like learning how to swim.
You know, I'm not afraid.
You know, I'm not afraid of the water.
I'm not going to drown because I know I have people that are going to hold me up and not
let me sink to the bottom.
And that's where, you know, I'm very excited about.
We will go forth and impart that wisdom.
And at Heaven's Revenge, I think you wanted to mention something, didn't you?
Yes.
Lots of people are scared of the differences or at least the amount of choice that you're
given.
There is one crucial area in which every distro or almost every distro has, which is similar.
And it's extremely important to understand because in Windows, you look outside of the
operating system to bring pieces into it.
As in you go to Google, download packages as a separate package and install it.
The most important thing for a new user to know is that every distro has its own repository
in which you're supposed to get software from.
Make them look at the repo first, then they'll find every answer, almost every answer that
they want instead of going out to the internet and Google instead.
That's a great point.
And that's the biggest shift that I think Chase will, you know, so one of the things
Chase, I'll just let you know, one of the mistakes you made is that Linux distributions
come with a package management system.
So instead of having to go out to the web and just download some installer for some
website, most of the time, the software you want, the system is already aware of in repositories.
You just have to issue the command either through a GUI or through the command line
to go grab that piece of software.
So for example, like on my machine here, I would do pacman-s Skype, enter, and then it
would go out and download Skype for me and install it.
I wouldn't have to go to Skype.com and download it because this is part of the huge difference.
So that's kind of the, you know, the entrenched learning experience of knowing how to do certain
things.
It's like that's what I've been used to do for years.
Yep.
Right.
Yes, my friend, that is a journey you are now beginning.
I know.
So we will be...
Can't wait for that.
We'll be keeping you up to date, everybody, on future editions of How To Linux.
Matt, on Sunday, I'm not going to tell you what the plan is because we got two possibilities
and they're both kind of crazy.
Oh, boy.
One of them, speaking of package managers, is waiting on some software, but we'll talk
about that.
But either way, Matt, I'm going to see you on Sunday, okay?
Sounds good.
See you then.
And don't forget, everyone, we do Linux Unplugged live on Tuesdays.
Join us over...
Just go to jupyterbroadcasting.com slash calendar, actually, to get it in your local time, but
we do it at 2 p.m. Pacific, and you can hang out in our chat room over at jblive.tv or
join our virtual log.
We have a mumble room over there.
Okay, everyone.
Well, if we don't see you on Sunday, I want to be sure we see you right back here on Tuesday
because Linux Unplugged comes out every single Tuesday.